life in the coldest inhabited place on
Earth is not easy and even seemingly
simple daily task can take a whole
day locals dedicate their weekends to
doing laundry and washing in their
wooden bath house the only option for
maintaining personal hygiene in a region
without running
water to get the bath house to the right
temperature stanisa and his son must
start heating it well in
advance the bath house in yua are heated
by wood burning stoves and the
temperature inside the steam room can
reach up to 70° or higher
it takes them to 5 hours and requires a
lot of
food because it takes so long the locals
will usually shower only once or twice a
week as the bath house slowly heats up
stus and dustan set out to get the water
from the garden snow making sure to
gather enough for both washing and
laundry
julan is 13year old the third child in
his family and a student at the local
Middle School despite his young age he
has already learned the necessary skills
to survive in the extreme climate and is
always there to help his father
with the water collected and the bath
house heated Zena the wife of stanislav
and their 16-year-old daughter Julia are
ready to begin their weekly laundry
[Music]
every Sunday the two of them wash the
family's clothes by hand using the snow
water that stanislav andan have
collected from the garden with a large
family to care for there's a lot of
laundry to get through despite the heavy
work CL Zena and Julia work diligently
together to ensure that the family has
clean and fresh clothes for the week
ahead
meanwhile julan is helping his father in
another important task of heating their
home the harsh Winters in yakuta require
feeling up the stop wood twice or even
three times a day for 9 months of the
year as the heat from the fireplace
starts to warm the house jusan hurries
to the outdoor toilet a small shed that
covers a
pit while using an outdoor toilet may
seem less convenient it's actually more
hygienic the Frozen temperatures make it
difficult to have working pipes which
would easily freeze and indoor toilets
without sewage will become quite
unpleasant in the meantime Zena and
Julia finished washing their clothes
they hung the freshly cleaned garments
outside in the garden to dry in the
freezing winter
air this is a traditional method that
helps to K any remaining germs leaving
the clothes creps and refreshed
the freezing winds in your coua work
quickly causing the wet cloes to stiffen
and becomes as hard as ports within
minutes in the dry Frosty air the wet
clo freeze and slowly evaporate due to
the dryness of the air although there is
still some moisture on the fabric
[Applause]
the skillful hands Ina expertly gathers
the Frozen laundry and brings it back
inside the laundry absorbs the
refreshing scense of winter making it
especially sweet to sleep on
[Music]
as the evening approaches Zena bees
herself is preparing dinner while the
boys get ready for their
bath after hours of heating the bath
house to a weltering 70° C Stanis
Angelos relax In the Heat of the steam
room especially as the outside
temperature drops to minus 50° which is
120° colder
once finished Stanis and jalus run
outside to cool off in the freezing cold
air the difference between the hot steam
room and the cold air is believed to
have many health benefits including
improving circulation and invigorating
the
body after cooling down they use the
melted snow water and soap to wash away
any remaining sweet and to clean
themselves
[Music]
while Stanis and julos are washing in
the bath house Zena and Julia are busy
making their favorite dumplings filled
with Min beef
Zena is well known in the village for
her delicious cooking skills and is
always teaching her daughter new dishes
and training in the kitchen
[Music]
once the dumplings are prepared they put
them on the terce outside to keep them
Frozen while they are in the bath house
the cold temperatures outside helps to
preserve dumplings ensuring that they
are ready to cook and serve once they
returning from the bath
[Music]
it's dinner time s returns from the bath
house refreshed and ready to cook a
delicious soup with dumplings for her
family in yaka most people make soup
every day it's a nourishing food that
helps to stay hydrated and warm in this
cold dry climate
on this Sunday evening they can finally
take a moment to rest and enwi after a
long and busy day
[Music]